man/mdadm.md, before:

---
tags: 
title: mdadm / software raid
date created: Sunday, December 29th 2019, 7:56:13 am
date modified: Saturday, July 30th 2022, 3:00:46 pm
---

# mdadm / software raid

## create raid

**raid 1:**

```
mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=1 --raid=devices=2 /dev/sda /dev/sdb
```

if you get an error like *mdadm: invalid number of raid devices: devices=2* run the command like so (with `-l` for level and `-n` for devices):

```
mdadm --verbose --create /dev/md0 -l 1 -n 2 /dev/sdc /dev/sdb
```

**create a file system:**

```
mkfs.ext4 /dev/md0
```

or whatever filesystem you want.

## check raid status

```
mdadm --detail /dev/md0
```

check also: `/proc/mdstat`

## save raid config

well, that's somewhat important, right?

```
mdadm --detail --scan --verbose | sudo tee -a /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
```

Run `update-initramfs -u` after updating this file.

**also, back up the `mdadm.conf` file to restore it onto a new system**

## replace disk

**remove disk:**

```
mdadm /dev/md0 -r /dev/sdb
```

**copy partition table from backup or primary drive:**

```
sfdisk -d /dev/sda | sfdisk /dev/sdb
```

**add disk:**

```
mdadm /dev/md0 -a /dev/sdb
```

## convert single disk to raid 1

... hopefully without losing data!

1. create raid from 2nd disk with one missing disk
2. copy data from 1st disk to 2nd disk (now in raid)
3. add 1st (original) disk to raid config
4. rebuild raid
5. profit (took 5 steps, I'm sorry)

**create raid:**

notice the `missing` bit?

```
mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=1 --raid-devices=2 missing /dev/sdb
```

now copy the data from the original disk to the newly created raid, so create and mount your filesystem on `/dev/md0`

[...]

**prepare original disk:**

let's dump (`-d` the disk layout from the raid disk to the original disk):

```
sfdisk -d /dev/sdb | sfdisk /dev/sda
```

**add original disk to raid:**

```
mdadm /dev/md0 -a /dev/sda
```

**check raid rebuild status:**

...in minutes

```
grep -oP 'finish\=\d+\.\d+' /proc/mdstat | cut -d'=' -f2
```

## debugging things

if you messed things up, you can try and restore things with `testdisk`

Commit message:

mdadm
Affected files:
man/mdadm.md

man/mdadm.md, after:

---
tags: 
title: mdadm / software raid
date created: Sunday, December 29th 2019, 7:56:13 am
date modified: Saturday, July 30th 2022, 3:00:46 pm
---

# mdadm / software raid

## create raid

**raid 1:**

```
mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=1 --raid=devices=2 /dev/sda /dev/sdb
```

if you get an error like *mdadm: invalid number of raid devices: devices=2* run the command like so (with `-l` for level and `-n` for devices):

```
mdadm --verbose --create /dev/md0 -l 1 -n 2 /dev/sdc /dev/sdb
```

**create a file system:**

```
mkfs.ext4 /dev/md0
```

or whatever filesystem you want.

## check raid status

```
mdadm --detail /dev/md0
```

check also: `/proc/mdstat`

## save raid config

well, that's somewhat important, right?

```
mdadm --detail --scan --verbose | sudo tee -a /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
```

Run `update-initramfs -u` after updating this file.

**also, back up the `mdadm.conf` file to restore it onto a new system**

## replace disk

**remove disk:**

```
mdadm /dev/md0 -r /dev/sdb
```

**copy partition table from backup or primary drive:**

```
sfdisk -d /dev/sda | sfdisk /dev/sdb
```

**add disk:**

```
mdadm /dev/md0 -a /dev/sdb
```

## convert single disk to raid 1

... hopefully without losing data!

1. create raid from 2nd disk with one missing disk
2. copy data from 1st disk to 2nd disk (now in raid)
3. add 1st (original) disk to raid config
4. rebuild raid
5. profit (took 5 steps, I'm sorry)

**create raid:**

notice the `missing` bit?

```
mdadm --create /dev/md0 --level=1 --raid-devices=2 missing /dev/sdb
```

now copy the data from the original disk to the newly created raid, so create and mount your filesystem on `/dev/md0`

[...]

**prepare original disk:**

let's dump (`-d` the disk layout from the raid disk to the original disk):

```
sfdisk -d /dev/sdb | sfdisk /dev/sda
```

**add original disk to raid:**

```
mdadm /dev/md0 -a /dev/sda
```

**check raid rebuild status:**

...in minutes

```
grep -oP 'finish\=\d+\.\d+' /proc/mdstat | cut -d'=' -f2
```

## increase mdadm rebuild / resync speed

you can check the current speed limits with:

```shell
sysctl dev.raid.speed_limit_min
sysctl dev.raid.speed_limit_max
```

and, now just increase that number to make it faster (it's displayed in kb)

```
sysctl -w dev.raid.speed_limit_min=500000
```

## debugging things

if you messed things up, you can try and restore things with `testdisk`
