man/rsync.md, before:

---
date created: Saturday, April 27th 2024, 9:53:49 am
date modified: Saturday, September 7th 2024, 10:01:42 am
tags:
  - rsync
---

# rsync

see also my mess over at [ssh, scp, rsync](ssh,%20scp,%20rsync.md)

## only include specific file (pattern)

I only want to sync files which match a specific name and exclude everything else.

- **Important:** the include/exclude lists are **case sensitive**.

In this case, I want to sync all files with *foo* and *bar* in the name, so it'd match the files *foobar* and *Superduper.jpg*

```shell
rsync -avP --include={*/,*foo*,*Super*} --exclude='*' rsync://example.com/files/ ~/Downloads
```

or with individual `include` arguments:

```shell
rsync -avP --include='*.yaml' --include='*.yml' --include='.env' --exclude='.git' --exclude='*' ~/source/ ~/dest/
```

## include / exclude from file pattern

example `include_patterns.txt` file to specify which files should be included

```
+ */
+ .env
+ *.yaml
+ *.yml
+ *.txt
```

use it in rsync like this:

```shell
rsync -avxiP --include-from="include_patterns.txt" ~/source ~/dest
```

this is a basic example, it's worth checking out the [filter rules of rsync's man page](https://download.samba.org/pub/rsync/rsync.1#FILTER_RULES)

## do not copy empty directories

`-m` or `--prune-empty-dirs`: Prevents rsync from creating empty directories in the destination.

```shell
rsync -avPm ~/source ~/dest
```

Commit message:

TIL: rsync - delete files from source

man/rsync.md, after:

---
date created: Saturday, April 27th 2024, 9:53:49 am
date modified: Tuesday, November 5th 2024, 6:00:58 am
tags:
  - rsync
---

# rsync

see also my mess over at [ssh, scp, rsync](ssh,%20scp,%20rsync.md)

## only include specific file (pattern)

I only want to sync files which match a specific name and exclude everything else.

- **Important:** the include/exclude lists are **case sensitive**.

In this case, I want to sync all files with *foo* and *bar* in the name, so it'd match the files *foobar* and *Superduper.jpg*

```shell
rsync -avP --include={*/,*foo*,*Super*} --exclude='*' rsync://example.com/files/ ~/Downloads
```

or with individual `include` arguments:

```shell
rsync -avP --include='*.yaml' --include='*.yml' --include='.env' --exclude='.git' --exclude='*' ~/source/ ~/dest/
```

## include / exclude from file pattern

example `include_patterns.txt` file to specify which files should be included

```
+ */
+ .env
+ *.yaml
+ *.yml
+ *.txt
```

use it in rsync like this:

```shell
rsync -avxiP --include-from="include_patterns.txt" ~/source ~/dest
```

this is a basic example, it's worth checking out the [filter rules of rsync's man page](https://download.samba.org/pub/rsync/rsync.1#FILTER_RULES)

## do not copy empty directories

`-m` or `--prune-empty-dirs`: Prevents rsync from creating empty directories in the destination.

```shell
rsync -avPm ~/source ~/dest
```

## delete files on the source

you might want to run this first with `-n`  for a dry run

```shell
rsync --remove-source-files -av ~/source ~/dest
```
